README.md, before:

MPV remote control API. You can use [MPV Remote android application](https://github.com/husudosu/mpv-remote-app/releases/latest) or you can create your own frontend.

[API documentation accessible here.](https://github.com/husudosu/mpv-remote-node/blob/master/APIDESIGN.md)

# Installation

### Requirements:

- [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/) (use [13.14.0 LTS](https://nodejs.org/download/release/v13.14.0/) for Windows 7)
- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) or [youtube-dl](https://youtube-dl.org/) for playing youtube videos,

### Install package

**Linux:**

Open your favorite terminal and:

```bash
sudo npm install -g mpv-remote
mpv-remote # Follow instructions
```

**Windows:**
Open powershell as admin. It's required only for creating symbolic links.

```powershell
Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Force # Allows running PS scripts from unknown sources
npm install -g mpv-remote
mpv-remote # Follow instructions
```

## Update

You have to re-run installation script after updating the package.

```bash
npm update -g mpv-remote
mpv-remote # Follow instructions
```

Note: if you get "Cannot create symbolic link because the path already exists" don't worry the installation will be fine.

# How to run MPV

If you don't want MPV close after playback finished use --idle flag or you can add `idle=yes` to your mpv.conf.

```
mpv --idle
```

# Configuration variables

You can configure server by using `--script-opts` flag of MPV like this (options seperated by ,):

```
mpv --script-opts=mpvremote-filebrowserpaths=/home/sudosu,mpvremote-uselocaldb=0
```

Or you can use a script-opts file.

scipt-opts location for mpvremote:

```bash
%appdata%/mpv/script-opts/mpvremote.conf # For windows
~/.config/mpv/script-opts/mpvremote.conf # For linux
```

If using script-opts file, you don't need `mpvremote-` prefix at configuration options.

[More info about script-opts files.](https://mpv.io/manual/master/#configuration)

Example configuration file:

```
# ~/.config/mpv/script-opts/mpvremote.conf
uselocaldb=1
webport=8000
webportrangeend=8010
unsafefilebrowsing=1
filebrowserpaths="'V:\anime';'W:\anime';'W:\Steins;Gate'"
verbose=0
osd-messages=1
```

## Available options:

| Option name                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Default value       | Available options/example                |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| mpvremote-uselocaldb         | Use local database to store media statuses and collections.                                                                                                                                                                           | 1                   | 0 - Disabled <br /> 1 - Enabled          |
| mpvremote-filebrowserpaths   | Stores paths which can be browsable by users it's a semicolon seperated list                                                                                                                                                          | N/A                 | "'V:\anime';'W:\anime';'W:\Steins;Gate'" |
| mpvremote-webport            | This option gonna be your first available port for MPV.                                                                                                                                                                               | 8000                | Any port within correct range            |
| mpvremote-webportrangeend    | Web port range end. if mpvremote-webport is 8000 and this option set to 8004, 5 instances of MPV gonna be supported. Increase/decrease these numbers as you wish.                                                                     | 8004                | Any port within correct range            |
| mpvreomte-address            | Server address                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Your first local IP | 127.0.0.1                                |
| mpvremote-unsafefilebrowsing | Allows you to browse your local filesystem. Be careful though, exposing your whole filesystem not the safest option. For security reasons filebrowser only send results of media files, playlists, subtitle files and subdirectories. | 1                   | 0 - Disabled<br/> 1 - Enabled            |
| mpvremote-verbose            | Verbose logging of MPV socket                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 0                   | 0 - Disabled<br/> 1 - Enabled            |
| mpvremote-osd-messages       | Show OSD messages on the player created by this plugin                                                                                                                                                                                | 1                   | 0 - Disabled<br> 1 - Enabled             |

# Troubleshooting

## NPM install/update takes forever

Sometimes NPM takes forever to install a package, [it's a known bug](https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/3359), try update NPM to the latest version and hope it's going to work. Run this as administrator:

```
npm install -g npm@latest
```

## Server not starting

If the server not starts, try run it manually, to get the exception (From terminal/command prompt):

```bash
node ~/.config/mpv/scripts/mpvremote/remoteServer.js # On linux systems
node %APPDATA%/mpv/scripts/mpvremote/remoteServer.js # On Windows from command prompt.
```

If you report server non starting issue copy the output of this command.

If you get "No socket provided" output the server works fine, so there's something up with the plugin or MPV itself.

## Youtube playback issues

I recommend using [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) for playing Youtube videos, but if you use youtube-dl:

- If you can't play Youtube videos then try to update the **youtube-dl** package (as admin): `pip3 install --upgrade youtube-dl`

## Common issues on Linux

yargs requires 12 or newer version of Node.JS so you should update your Node.JS version. For example this error occours on Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS.

- [How to update Node.JS](https://askubuntu.com/questions/426750/how-can-i-update-my-nodejs-to-the-latest-version)

If the server works fine, then there's an issue with MPV itself. Some linux distributions like Debian and MX Linux ships pre-built MPV packages without Javascript support.

You can check it by using this command:

```bash
mpv -v | grep javascript
```

if the output is empty, there's no javascript support.

Install mujs and [build MPV for yourself](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv-build)

## When you report an issue

It makes problem solving easier if you provide some info about your environment.

- Your OS,
- Node.JS version (`node -v`)
- NPM version (`npm -v`)
- MPV version (`mpv -v`)

# TODO

- Need better installation scripts for Windows and Linux, where update can be handled easily. (NPM postinstall script maybe)
- Improve API documentation,
- Better installation scripts,
- Make a Youtube video about installing/updating MPV-remote on Windows and Linux

# Disclaimer

The app developer DOES NOT promotes piracy! Other apps and modules used by this app may include some level of piracy.

Commit message:

Initial commit with my updates and new features

README.md, after:

MPV remote control API. You can use [MPV Remote android application](https://github.com/husudosu/mpv-remote-app/releases/latest) or you can create your own frontend.

[API documentation accessible here.](https://github.com/husudosu/mpv-remote-node/blob/master/APIDESIGN.md)

## 🖥️ Display Control Feature

Control your display remotely - turn your monitor on/off from the app! Works with both X11 and Wayland.

**Quick Setup (Wayland users):**
```bash
./install-display-control.sh
```

[📖 Full documentation and manual setup](DISPLAY-CONTROL.md)

# Installation

### Requirements:

- [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/) (use [13.14.0 LTS](https://nodejs.org/download/release/v13.14.0/) for Windows 7)
- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) or [youtube-dl](https://youtube-dl.org/) for playing youtube videos,

### Install package

**Linux:**

Open your favorite terminal and:

```bash
sudo npm install -g mpv-remote
mpv-remote # Follow instructions
```

**Windows:**
Open powershell as admin. It's required only for creating symbolic links.

```powershell
Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Force # Allows running PS scripts from unknown sources
npm install -g mpv-remote
mpv-remote # Follow instructions
```

## Update

You have to re-run installation script after updating the package.

```bash
npm update -g mpv-remote
mpv-remote # Follow instructions
```

Note: if you get "Cannot create symbolic link because the path already exists" don't worry the installation will be fine.

# How to run MPV

If you don't want MPV close after playback finished use --idle flag or you can add `idle=yes` to your mpv.conf.

```
mpv --idle
```

# Configuration variables

You can configure server by using `--script-opts` flag of MPV like this (options seperated by ,):

```
mpv --script-opts=mpvremote-filebrowserpaths=/home/sudosu,mpvremote-uselocaldb=0
```

Or you can use a script-opts file.

scipt-opts location for mpvremote:

```bash
%appdata%/mpv/script-opts/mpvremote.conf # For windows
~/.config/mpv/script-opts/mpvremote.conf # For linux
```

If using script-opts file, you don't need `mpvremote-` prefix at configuration options.

[More info about script-opts files.](https://mpv.io/manual/master/#configuration)

Example configuration file:

```
# ~/.config/mpv/script-opts/mpvremote.conf
uselocaldb=1
webport=8000
webportrangeend=8010
unsafefilebrowsing=1
filebrowserpaths="'V:\anime';'W:\anime';'W:\Steins;Gate'"
verbose=0
osd-messages=1
```

## Available options:

| Option name                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Default value       | Available options/example                |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| mpvremote-uselocaldb         | Use local database to store media statuses and collections.                                                                                                                                                                           | 1                   | 0 - Disabled <br /> 1 - Enabled          |
| mpvremote-filebrowserpaths   | Stores paths which can be browsable by users it's a semicolon seperated list                                                                                                                                                          | N/A                 | "'V:\anime';'W:\anime';'W:\Steins;Gate'" |
| mpvremote-webport            | This option gonna be your first available port for MPV.                                                                                                                                                                               | 8000                | Any port within correct range            |
| mpvremote-webportrangeend    | Web port range end. if mpvremote-webport is 8000 and this option set to 8004, 5 instances of MPV gonna be supported. Increase/decrease these numbers as you wish.                                                                     | 8004                | Any port within correct range            |
| mpvreomte-address            | Server address                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Your first local IP | 127.0.0.1                                |
| mpvremote-unsafefilebrowsing | Allows you to browse your local filesystem. Be careful though, exposing your whole filesystem not the safest option. For security reasons filebrowser only send results of media files, playlists, subtitle files and subdirectories. | 1                   | 0 - Disabled<br/> 1 - Enabled            |
| mpvremote-verbose            | Verbose logging of MPV socket                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 0                   | 0 - Disabled<br/> 1 - Enabled            |
| mpvremote-osd-messages       | Show OSD messages on the player created by this plugin                                                                                                                                                                                | 1                   | 0 - Disabled<br> 1 - Enabled             |

# Troubleshooting

## NPM install/update takes forever

Sometimes NPM takes forever to install a package, [it's a known bug](https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/3359), try update NPM to the latest version and hope it's going to work. Run this as administrator:

```
npm install -g npm@latest
```

## Server not starting

If the server not starts, try run it manually, to get the exception (From terminal/command prompt):

```bash
node ~/.config/mpv/scripts/mpvremote/remoteServer.js # On linux systems
node %APPDATA%/mpv/scripts/mpvremote/remoteServer.js # On Windows from command prompt.
```

If you report server non starting issue copy the output of this command.

If you get "No socket provided" output the server works fine, so there's something up with the plugin or MPV itself.

## Youtube playback issues

I recommend using [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) for playing Youtube videos, but if you use youtube-dl:

- If you can't play Youtube videos then try to update the **youtube-dl** package (as admin): `pip3 install --upgrade youtube-dl`

## Common issues on Linux

yargs requires 12 or newer version of Node.JS so you should update your Node.JS version. For example this error occours on Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS.

- [How to update Node.JS](https://askubuntu.com/questions/426750/how-can-i-update-my-nodejs-to-the-latest-version)

If the server works fine, then there's an issue with MPV itself. Some linux distributions like Debian and MX Linux ships pre-built MPV packages without Javascript support.

You can check it by using this command:

```bash
mpv -v | grep javascript
```

if the output is empty, there's no javascript support.

Install mujs and [build MPV for yourself](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv-build)

## When you report an issue

It makes problem solving easier if you provide some info about your environment.

- Your OS,
- Node.JS version (`node -v`)
- NPM version (`npm -v`)
- MPV version (`mpv -v`)

# TODO

- Need better installation scripts for Windows and Linux, where update can be handled easily. (NPM postinstall script maybe)
- Improve API documentation,
- Better installation scripts,
- Make a Youtube video about installing/updating MPV-remote on Windows and Linux

# Disclaimer

The app developer DOES NOT promotes piracy! Other apps and modules used by this app may include some level of piracy.
